# The Landlord's Game (1904 Patent)

*Note:* This text is taken from the

[Landlord's Game](https://landlordsgame.info/rules/lg-1904p_patent.html) web
site, images are extracted from 
[the Wikimedia PDF](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:The_Landlord%27s_Game_patent_(US748626).pdf)
of the patent application which is in the public domain.

## 748,626.  GAME-BOARD.  Lizzie J. Magie, Brentwood, Md.

**Filed Mar.23, 1903.  Serial No. 149,177.  (No model.)**

*To all whom it may concern:*
   
Be it known that I, LIZZIE J. MAGIE, a citizen of the United States, residing at
Brentwood, in the county of Prince George and State of Maryland, have invented
certain new and useful Improvements in Game-Boards, of which the following is a
specification.

My invention, which I have designated "The Landlord's game," relates to
game-boards, and more particularly to games of chance.

The object of the game is to obtain as much wealth or money as possible, the
player having the greatest amount of wealth at the end of the game after a
certain predetermined number of circuits of the board have been made being the
winner.

In the drawings forming the part of this specification, and in which like
symbols of reference represent corresponding parts in the several views, Figure
1 is a plan view of the board, showing the different spaces marked thereon. 
Figure 2 shows the various movable pieces used in the game; and Fig. 3 is a view
of the boxes, the same being designated as the “bank.”

The implements of the game consist of a board which is divided into a number of
spaces or sections and four (4) spaces in the center indicating, respectively,
“Bank,” “Wages,” “Public treasury,” and “Railroad.”  Within these four spaces
are preferably placed four (4) boxes, one of which is shown in the drawings and
represented by the numeral 24.

The movable pieces used in the game, only one piece of each set for convenience
of illustration being shown in the drawings, are as follows:  Four pairs of
dice, four shaking boxes, four checkers to check the throws made, taxes
representing, respectively, “Bank," “Wages," “Public treasury," and "Railroad,"
and also various colored chips or tickets representing lots, money, deeds,
notes, individual mortgages, bank mortgages, charters, legacies, and luxuries.
These chips are not to be limited to any certain number or colors.

25 indicates lot tickets; 26, the dice; 27, shaking boxes; 28, deeds; 29, notes;
30, individual mortgages; 31, bank mortgages; 32, charters; 33, luxuries; 35,
money; 36, checkers; and 34 legacies. 

____________________

**The game is played as follows:** Each player is provided with five hundred
dollars. The lot tickets, twenty-two (22) in number, are placed face downward
upon the board, and each player draws one until twelve have been taken. The rest
are put back in the wages box. Each player looks at the tickets he has drawn and
may purchase the lot corresponding to his ticket if he can afford to or so
chooses. If he does not purchase, he does not have to pay rent, but simply puts
the ticket back into the wages-box again. When these twelve lots have been
bought or the privilege refused and the owner's deeds placed upon those
purchased, the game begins.

The series of spaces upon the board are not colored to distinguish them; but of
course other means of making them distinctive may be employed. The lot-spaces
"1" to “22," which are preferably green, are for sale at the highest figure
marked upon them or for rent at the lowest figure marked upon them. If a player
chooses to buy a lot, he must pay into the "Public treasury" the price of it and
place his deed upon it. If he chooses to rent it, he must pay the rent to the
"Public treasury."

Absolute necessities: These spaces, which are preferably blue, indicate absolute
necessities -- each as bread, coal, shelter, and clothing -- and when a player
stops upon any of these he must pay five dollars into the "Public treasury."
(This represents indirect taxation.)

No trespassing: Spaces marked "No trespassing" represent property held out of
use, and when a player stops on one of these spaces he must go to jail and
remain there until be throws a double or until he pays into the "Public
treasury" a fine of fifty dollars. When he comes cut, he must count from the
space immediately in front of the jail.

Railroad: "R. R." represents transportation, and when a player stops upon one of
these spaces he mast pay five dollars to the "R.R." If a player throws a double,
he "Gets a pass" and has the privilege of jumping once from one railroad to
another, provided he would in his ordinary moving pass a "R. R." If he stops
upon it, however, he must pay five dollars.

Luxuries: These spaces, preferably purple, represent the luxuries of life, and
if a player stops on a "Luxury" he pays fifty dollars to the "Public treasury,"
receiving in return a luxury ticket, which counts him sixty dollars at the end
of the game. The player may purchase the luxury or not, as he chooses or can
afford; bit if he does not purchase it he loses his move.

Franchises: These spaces, preferably yellow, indicate light franchise and water
franchise and are public necessities. The first player who stops upon one of
these franchises puts his charter upon it, and all though the game he has the
privilege of taxing all the other players five dollars whenever they chance to
stop upon it.  It cost him nothing and counts him nothing at the and of the
game.

Public park: A player may stop is the "Public park" without paying anything.

Legacy: if a player stops on the Legacy," he gets one hundred dollars cash and a
legacy-ticket.

Mother Earth: Each time a player goes around the board he is supposed to have
performed so much labor upon Mother Earth, for which after passing the
beginning-point he receives his wages, one hundred dollars, and is checked upon
the tally-sheet as having been around once.

Poorhouse: If at any time a player has no money with which to meet expenses and
has no property upon which he can borrow, he must go to the poorhouse and remain
there until he makes such throws as will enable him to finish the round.

Rent: When a player stops upon a lot owned by any of the players, he must pay
the rent to the owner. If he stops upon one of his own lots, of course he pays
nothing. If two players stop upon the same lot, the second must pay to the first
one-half of the rent, (in case of an odd number giving to the first the benefit
of the fraction.) If a third player's throw brings him on the same lot, he
cannot occupy it, but must remain upon the space next to it, counting his throw
one less. In case of lot 1 the player gets the whole rent.

Borrowing: A player may borrow from the “Bank" in amounts of one hundred
dollars, and for every one hundred dollars borrowed the " Bank" takes a mortgage
on one or more of the borrower's lots, the total value of which must be at least
ten dollars more than is borrowed. For every one hundred dollars borrowed from
the "Bank" a bank mortgage is placed upon the property on which the loan is
made, and the player puts his note in the "Bank," paying upon each note five
dollars (interest) every time he receives his wages. One player may borrow from
another, giving a mortgage on any property he may own and making the best
bargain he can as to interest, terms of payments &c. The player loaning the
money places his individual, mortgage on the top of the borrower's deed to show
that he has a mortgage on that property, Should a loan be repaid before passing
the beginning-point, the borrower saves the interest.

Five times around: When a player has been around the board five times he may
move in either direction, provided he is clear of debt, until each of the other
players has been around five times; but having passed the beginning-point the
required number of times he receives no more wages. The game is finished when
the last player has passed the beginning-point the fifth time.

Counting up: As the deeds are removed from the lots each player is credited with
the value of the lots owned by him. His cash on hand is counted, and the amount
set down under the total value of the lots. Then the luxuries are counted,
(remember that each one counts sixty,) and the amount set down under cash.  Add
together these three amounts -- lots, cash, and luxuries -- and the player who
has the largest sum-total is the winner.

Playing without the lot tickets: Some have found it more interesting to play the
game without using the lot tickets at all, players simply purchasing lots as
they come to them in the ordinary moving. In this case the player is provided
with one hundred dollars to begin with. The number of times around the board may
also be regulated by the will of the players.

Emergencies: Should any emergency arise which is not covered by the rules of the
game, the players must settle the matter between themselves; but if any player
absolutely refuses to obey the rules as above set forth he must go to jail and
remain there until he throws a double or pays his fine, as explained in
paragraph "No trespassing." 

____________________

Having now fully described my invention, what I claim as new, and desire to
secure by Letters Patent, is –

1. A game-board, having corner-spaces, one constituting the starting-point, and
   a series of intervening spaces indicating different denominations, some of
   the spaces of the different series corresponding, and distinguished by
   coloring or other marking, so that the corresponding divisions on the four
   spaces may be readily recognized.

2. A game-board, provided with corner spaces, intervening spaces of different
   denominations, some of the spaces of the different series corresponding, and
   distinguished by coloring or other marking, so that the corresponding spaces
   in the different divisions may be recognized, and a series of movable pieces
   having reference to the different divisions upon the board.

3. A game-board, having a series of divisions of different denominations upon
   its outer border, one constituting the starting-point, four divisions within
   said series for the reception of boxes, a series of movable pieces having
   reference to the spaces upon the board, and a chance device to control
   movement of the pieces.

4. A game-board, provided with corner spaces, intervening spaces of different
   denominations, and distinguished by distinctive marking, so that the
   corresponding divisions on the different spaces may be recognized, movable
   pieces having reference to the spaces, a chance device to control the
   movement of the pieces, checkers, and tickets representing money, deeds,
   notes, mortgages, bank mortgages, legacies, and luxuries, adapted to be used
   in connection with the same.

 In testimony whereof I affix my signature in presence of two witnesses.

 LIZZIE J. MAGIE.

 Witnesses,<br/>
 MARIE L. SIEMMERS,<br/>
 LAWRENCE HUFTY. 